EC-30 TROUBLE DIAGNOSIS  NOTE: Number of trips varies depending on diagnosis content.  CAUTION:  Some DTCs specified above may detect a malfunction in the self-diagnosis, excluding the engine system, when the DTC detects some malfunctions. Check the self-diagnosis excluding the engine at this time.  Self-diagnosis Function (without SST) (Cont'd)  No.   Diagnosis item   Malfunction Return Condition   MIL   Trip 1245   LPG fuel pressure sensor signal circuit low input •   LPG fuel pressure sensor circuit is shorted.   ON   1 1249   LPG fuel pressure sensor signal circuit high input • LPG fuel pressure sensor circuit is open. •   Fuel pressure in fuel piping from LPG VIPO to injector has been excessively increased for predetermined period.  ON   1 1805   Stop lamp switch signal system •   While driving, stop lamp switch is stuck at OFF for a long time.   －   1 1814   Air-fuel ratio does not cross stoichiometry for a long time during intended closed-loop operation. (written in 40CFR Parts 1048.110.) • After engine warmed with gasoline fuel, when oxygen sensor signal is sticked and does not reverse at a condition of A/F ratio is excessively lean or rich.  －   1 1148   • After engine is started with gasoline fuel, when closed-loop control does not start within a predetermined period. 1815   Air-fuel ratio does not cross stoichiometry for a long time during intended closed-loop operation. (written in 40CFR Parts 1048.110.) • After engine warmed with LPG fuel, when oxygen sensor signal is sticked and does not reverse at a condition of A/F ratio is excessively lean or rich.  －   1 1817   • After engine is started with LPG fuel, when closed-loop control does not start within a predetermined period. 2122   Accelerator pedal position sensor 1 circuit •   Accelerator pedal position sensor output voltage has been 0.15V or less (open) for predetermined period.   ON*   1 2123   Accelerator pedal position sensor 1 circuit •   Accelerator pedal position sensor output voltage has been 5V or more (short) for predetermined period.   ON*   1 2127   Accelerator pedal position sensor 2 circuit •   Accelerator pedal position sensor output voltage has been 0.15V or less (open) for predetermined period.  ON*   1 2128   Accelerator pedal position sensor 2 circuit •   Accelerator pedal position sensor output voltage has been 5V or more (short) for predetermined period.  ON*   1 2135   Throttle position sensor signal (nonconformance) system •   A malfunction occurs in relation between throttle position sensors 1 and 2.   ON*   1 2138   Accelerator pedal position sensor signal (nonconformance) system •   A malfunction occurs in relation between accelerator pedal position sensors 1 and 2.   ON*   1
EC-31 TROUBLE DIAGNOSIS Service Tool  Trip 1: If a malfunction is detected by self-diagnosis between the time ignition switch is turned ON (engine is running) and then turned OFF (this is defined as “trip”), Engine Warning lamp is lit. The corresponding DTC is recorded immediately after detection. Trip 2: When a malfunction is detected by self-diagnosis for the first time in the first trip, a tentative DTC is recorded. If the same malfunction is detected again by self-diagnosis in the next trip (second trip), Engine Warning lamp is lit and the corresponding final DTC is recorded.  SELF-DIAGNOSTIC RESULTS TIMING  •   For items of trip 1, timing “0” is displayed immediately after detection of a malfunction. •   For items of trip 2, when a malfunction is detected for the first time (trip 1), timing “1t” is displayed. When a malfunction is detected again in the next trip (trip 2), it is displayed as “0”. Accumulative counting is performed at the end of warming-up operation,  CONDITIONS TO TURN OFF ENGINE WARNING LAMP  •   The Engine Warning lamp, marked with *, is turned off when ignition switch is turned ON (engine starts) again after normal state is resumed. •   For other self-diagnostic items, self-diagnostic results shall be erased by turning ignition switch to OFF after normal operation is resumed.  OBD SYSTEM COUNTER (FOR TRIP 2 DETECTION DIAGNOSIS WHEN MIL TURNS ON) Relation of MIL, First trip DTC, DTC and possible detection items  •   When the malfunction is detected for the first time, ECM records first trip DTC. •   When the same malfunction is detected twice continuously, ECM records DTC and MIL turns ON. •   MIL turns OFF after driving the vehicle by 3 trips without the malfunction. If the same malfunction occurs while counting, the counter is reset. •   DTC is displayed until the vehicle is driven by 40 trips while the same malfunction is not reproduced. •   If the self-diagnosis result is OK at the second trip, the first trip DTC is not displayed.  TABLE OF COUNTER SYSTEMS  Unit: Trip Items   Trips   Driving conditions MIL (OFF)   3   B DTC (CLEAR)   40   A First trip DTC (CLEAR)   1   B
