6WG1 Electronic Control Fuel Injection System (Common Rail Type) 1E-17  Pre-inspection Visual check of engine compartment  Visual check of engine compartment should be care- fully when performing the diagnostic procedure. This inspection can often solve the trouble with no extra steps. If performing visual check, follow the guideline below.  •   Check all the air hoses etc. for punch hole, cut, dis-  connection or improper routing.  •   Inspect the hoses   hidden   behind   other compo-  nents.  •   Check if all the harnesses of the engine compart-  ment are properly connected, if there are any burn- out parts or worn parts, if harnesses are pinched, if there are any contacts with sharp edges, or an exhaust manifold or pipes in high temperature, etc.  Machine maintenance result check  If the maintenance of the machine is not properly per- formed, the diagnosis lamp comes on. Clogging in oil filter or fuel filter caused by insufficient oil change or improper oil viscosity and deposit in crankcase may cause troubles on the machine, which were not found before on-board diagnosis (OBD) system check. Though improper maintenance of the machine is not  classified   as   “The   trouble   caused   by   other   than   a machine”, a maintenance schedule should be more  strictly followed because of high sensitivity of the on- board diagnosis (OBD) system check.  Non-OEM parts  All the on-board diagnosis system checks are adjusted to be operated by genuine parts. Therefore, if a com- mercial general sensor or switch is installed, the diag- nosis lamp comes on due to faulty diagnosis. If   commercial   electronic   devices,   such   as   mobile phone, stereo, antitheft device, etc. are installed and their installation is not proper, EMI (electromagnetic interference) may be discharged to the control system. That leads to the generation of fault sensor information and the diagnosis lamp comes on. When performing trouble diagnosis, turn the power of all commercial  parts to “OFF” or remove those parts, and check for  faults again.  Information: Fault in related system  Many on-board diagnosis (OBD) system checks enter the back-up operating mode by instruction from engine control module (ECM) when the ECM detects the fault in related systems or components. In the back-up oper- ating mode, they lower output to protect the machine.  Trouble diagnosis Basic knowledge for required tools Important: If performing the diagnostic procedure, no basic knowledge on this powertrain may lead to faulty diagnosis or damage to powertrain components. If you do not have basic knowledge, do not perform the diagnosis of the trouble relating to powertrain. Basic understanding on hand tools, such as scan tools, is required to utilize service manual effec- tively. About on-board diagnosis test  Types of trouble diagnosis results are the following. 1. History trouble Trouble codes which occurred under the following  conditions are called “History trouble”. •   Diagnostic test was completed at previous igni-  tion cycle.  •   Diagnosis test has accepted at current ignition  cycle.  •   Faults found by the diagnostic test do not cur-  rently exist. 2. Present trouble Trouble codes which occurred under the following  conditions are called “Present trouble”. •   Diagnostic test was completed at previous igni-  tion cycle.  •   The faults detected by the diagnostic test cur-  rently exist.  •   The faults exist at current ignition cycle.  Description of terms Diagnostic trouble code (DTC)  Every time turning the key switch to ON, the ECM per- forms self-test of most wiring and components and stores the detected faults in memory. For some DTCs, it also performs the back-up control. If the fault which affects operation occurs, the diagnosis lamp comes on to notify an operator.  Ignition cycle  Ignition cycle is defined as Key ON, Run and Key OFF so that the machine can be operated under the speci- fied diagnostic standard.  Diagnosis lamp  Basically, the diagnosis lamp comes on when the fault occurs in electronic control, such as engine control module (ECM), and a DTC (diagnostic trouble code) is detected.  Data link connector (DLC)  The data link connector is communication device with control unit. The DLC is also used to connect a scan tool. General use of scan tool is described below.  •   Identification of stored DTC •   Reading of serial data
1E-18 6WG1 Electronic Control Fuel Injection System (Common Rail Type)  Note:  The   location   of   DLC   and   existence   of   DLC   vary  depending on each machine. Refer to the machine’s  manual.  ECM OFF  The power of ECM is cut off 10 seconds after the key switch is turned to OFF, and then it will be ECM OFF condition.  Operation of comprehensive diagnosis for monitors of components  It is necessary to comprehensively diagnose compo- nents for the proper operation of the engine.  Input components:  Input components are confirmed to check if there are open circuit and the values exceed the range. Though the following does not include all input compo- nents, these sensors are included.  •   Crankshaft position (CKP) sensor •   G sensor •   Engine coolant temperature (ECT) sensor •   Vehicle speed sensor •   Boost pressure sensor •   Common rail pressure sensor •   Accelerator position (AP) sensor  Output components:  Output components are diagnosed if their responses to commands   from   control   units   are   relevant.   Check whether there are open circuit and the values exceed the range. Though the following does not include all the output components   to   be   confirmed,   these   circuits   are included.  •   Pressure control valve (PCV) •   Lamp, relay control •   Magnetic valve •   Diagnosis lamp  How to read DTC How to read DTC by diagnosis lamp  The diagnosis lamp blinks to indicate the current and history trouble codes (DTCs) stored in ECM by con- necting the diagnosis switch.  Note:  Refer to the machine’s manual for the locations of diag-  nosis lamp.  •   Turn the key switch to ON and make sure the diag-  nosis lamp illuminates. (Bulb check)  •   Turn the key switch to ON, and the engine OFF. •   Connect the diagnosis switch (connector). •   Read the blinking pattern of the diagnosis lamp. •   Judge the contents of DTC by DTC table.  If a scan tool has been connected, it can be read using the tool.  Indication with no DTC stored  The code “1”, which indicates starting of code display,  is repeatedly displayed.  Indication with DTC stored  Stored trouble code is displayed three times. If more than one trouble code are stored, they are displayed in the ascending order for three times each. After taking a round, codes are repeatedly displayed in the ascending order. This will last as long as the diagnosis connector is connected.  ß¬ ½±¼» ÅìïíÃ ß¬ ½±¼» ÅîíÃ ÑÒ Ù±» ±ºº ÑÒ Ù±» ±ºº Ì»² ¼·¹·¬   Ë²·¬ ¼·¹·¬ Ì»² ¼·¹·¬   Ë²·¬ ¼·¹·¬ Ø«²¼®»¼ ¼·¹·¬ ¬ïã¿°°®±¨ò ðòí »½ò ¬îã¿°°®±¨ò ðòê »½ò ¬íã¿°°®±¨ò ïòî »½ò ¬ìã¿°°®±¨ò îòì »½ò
6WG1 Electronic Control Fuel Injection System (Common Rail Type) 1E-19  About DTC indicated by blinking of diagnosis lamp  While the engine stops, both the current and past DTCs are displayed. While the engine is operated, the lamp illuminates only if the current DTC occurs.  How to read DTC by trouble display monitor  When a DTC occurs, it is displayed on trouble display monitor on the machine.  How to read DTC by a scan tool  DTC can be read using a scan tool.  Note:  Refer to 1E-36,   “Diagnostic procedure, Tech2, How to Use Trouble Diagnosis–Related Tool” for work proce-  dure.  If the DTC (diagnostic trouble code) is stored  Perform service correctly according to the specified DTC chart.  If there is no DTC  Select symptom from the diagnostic chart according to symptom. Complete the service following diagnostic procedure. You may also perform inspection by refer- ring function diagnosis.  If there is no applicable symptom  1. Confirm the complaint in detail. 2. Create diagnostic plan. 3. Use wiring diagram and principle of operation. Ask for technical support when repair history is avail-  able for similar case. Connect technician’s knowledge  with the effective usage of available service informa- tion.  If there is intermittent (intermittent trouble)  The trouble situation not occurring constantly is called intermittent (intermittent trouble). Perform the following steps to solve the intermittent trouble. 1. Check the DTC information and data display. 2. Evaluate symptom and situation explained by the customer. 3. Check the circuits or the electric system compo- nents using check sheet or other methods.  If the trouble is not detected  In this case, the machine is judged as it operates prop- erly. The condition explained by the customer may be  the normal condition. Confirm the customer’s complaint  comparing with the condition of the machine to that of another machine. That condition may mean an intermit- tent trouble. Confirm the complaint in the situation the customer explains before returning the machine to the customer. 1. Confirm the complaint again. If the complaint can not be fully detected or identi- fied, the machine must be diagnosed again. Con- firm the complaint one more time. The complaint  may be an intermittent trouble as defined in “If there is intermittent”, but it may also be possible  that the machine is normal. 2. Repair and confirm. If the problem is confirmed, repair it. Confirm that the machine operates properly and the symptoms are corrected. This includes test on the machine or other   procedures   to   confirm   that   the trouble is solved under following conditions:  •   Confirm by testing in the situation that the cus-  tomer described.  •   If DTC is diagnosed, reproduce the situation  found while the DTC is set, and confirm the repair by checking a scan tool data.